http://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/transmission/human-transmission.html

"During an Ebola outbreak in 1995 in Kikwit, Democratic Republic of the Congo,
28 (16%) of the 173 household contacts of 27 primary Ebola cases developed EVD.3
All 28 secondary cases involved direct physical contact with a known EVD
patient; overall, 28 of 95 family members who had direct contact with a primary
case became infected, whereas none of 78 family members who did not report
direct contact became infected. In the 1995 Ebola outbreak in Kikwit, among
those with direct contact, exposure to body fluids conferred additional risk
(relative risk = 3.6) consistent with the importance of direct contact with the
blood or other body fluids of infected patients in propagating EVD
transmission.3 After adjusting for direct contact and exposure to body fluids,
adult family members who touched a deceased EVD patient (relative risk = 2.1)
and who were exposed during the late hospital phase were at additional risk.3"


Relevant papers:

    Dowell SF, Mukunu R, Ksiazek TG, Khan AS, Rollin PE, Peters CJ. Transmission
    of Ebola hemorrhagic fever: a study of risk factors in family members,
    Kikwit, Democratic Republic of the Congo, 1995. Commission de Lutte contre
    les Epidemies a Kikwit. The Journal of Infectious Diseases. Feb 1999;179
    Suppl 1:S87-91.
   

General thoughts:
    
    First, find the probability of infection from an infected patient to an
    uninfected person, possibly with the following?: 
    
        (number of new infections)=(number of old infected people)*(average
        number of people who interact with infected patient per
        day)*(probability of infection)
        
    Basically this is a kTV type of interaction (like from HIV). However, I
    think we can fit the probability of infection from past and present
    ebola data. We should read some relevant papers and see if we can find
    some solid infection rate data (or a model that has already fitted all
    of the constants, and has legitimate justifications!).

    We are certainly concerned with the spatial dynamics of the ebola virus
    (i.e. with the spread geographically of the virus, rather than concerned
    with the in-vivo dynamics of the virus). Are we interested in adding some
    in-vivo dynamics to our model? These dynamics would potentially be useful,
    as we could gauge a person's infectedness by the viral count of RNA copies
    of ebola virus per ml. These dynamics have probably already been studied,
    too. However, this addition may make our model too complex.


Dynamics and control of Ebola in Liberia (Lewnard, Mbah, others):
    
    Figure 1 has a cool plot of their model that they fitted to cases and deaths
    caused by ebola. They use a 95% confidence range, and fit to n-2 points and
    then extrapolate for 2 points and compare to the actual values.

    They have a table of possible interventions, with how they affect the
    parameters.

    "Bayesian Markov Chain Monte Carlo sampling for model calibration"

    They outline their model (not in math, though) in Methods->Model outline. We
    could interpret their model as math, and then fit the data they use, and
    compare our plot to theirs? (This would add credibility to our model)

Early epidemic dynamics with two-parameter model (Fisman, Khoo, Tuite):

    Reproductive number between 1.6 and 2

    All of these papers have funding statements! Weird, I've never seen those
    before.

    github.com/cmrivers/ebola has public data repository!
    Oh man- I copied that github into our Dropbox, and it's tons of data!

    They have a sensitivity analysis we could use

    Other useful githubs:
    https://github.com/muxspace/ebola.sitrep
    https://github.com/jeremybmerrill/ebola_parsers

