Dynamics and control of Ebola virus transmission in
Montserrado, Liberia: a mathematical modelling analysis
Potentially useful parameters:
Basic reproductive number for EVD = 2.49 (# of EVD cases caused by an individual infected
with Ebola in an otherwise susceptible population without any public health or clinical
interventions)
Things to consider doing for our model:
See how the time at which the treatment  center is placed affects the containment
of the disease.
Have multiple parameters for rate of infection, i.e. infected people can infect other
people at a certain rate if not in treatment center, but a different, smaller rate, when in 
treatment center.
For spatial considerations, should we consider differences in things such as population 
density as well as differences in health care, i.e. clean water and proper burials.


Early Epidemic Dynamics of the West African
2014 Ebola Outbreak: Estimates Derived with a
Simple Two-Parameter Model
This model does not seem to the one we would like to use as a starting point for our model.
We should probably do something a little more in depth than a two parameter model.
Interesting facts from this paper:
This outbreak has been so bad because it has primarily occurred in larger cities.
They went with a time scale of about 15 days, the time of latently and actively infected 
Ebola in one person.


Emerging Disease Dynamics
The Case of Ebola
This paper suggests that the basic reproductive number for Ebola could be modeled as a
function of the susceptible population. This is probably not the model we want to base our
model off of.


Transmission dynamics and control of Ebola virus
disease (EVD): a review
This article has good numbers for R0, as well. I have noticed that all articles have some
value R0, and they vary widely, so we will need to look into which of these values, if any
will fit our model/ data. 
This article seems to have a fairly simple model with the aspects we would like to look
at, so it would be a good place to start developing our model. 


Transmission dynamics and control of Ebola virus
disease outbreak in Nigeria, July to September 2014
This seems to have a model close to what we want to start with. One interesting note was
that 11 of the 20 cases in Nigeria were healthcare workers. It may be important to make a
part of our model; the rate of infection is higher for healthcare givers, but in the 
countries we are looking at, I have read in other articles that many people do not seek 
medical treatment, so it is family members who are giving care and are most at risk. I 
don't know how this would look in our model, but it is a potential parameter to consider.
This article claims that for the disease to be stopped, we must reduce the basic 
reproductive number to something below 1. This might be an easier indication in our model
to try to reach rather than some percent of people receiving care at a treatment center.
EVD fatality rate in Sierra Leon, Liberia, Guinea is estimated to be around 70%.


Understanding the dynamics of Ebola epidemics
There is little to no asymptomatic carriers.
This model includes hospitalized Ebola patients as well as dead Ebola victims who have yet
to be buried. The removed category is both recovered and buried. 
This model includes intervention features, which we are not considering, however some of
the concepts used with this might be useful, i.e. "Interventions were completely efficient
after the date indicated in Table 3 and not efficient at all before this date." would be
a useful way to consider adding a treatment center. It is not at all efficient before it
is built, but then to some degree effective after it is built.
This model contains several good assumptions that I think we should use (on page 5) like
all transmissions are human-to-human etc. 
This article has decent parameters for the transmission rate for community, hospital, dead,
etc. that would be a good place to start looking for parameters for our model (page 6).
If we want to use an existing model to work off of, this model is likely the best. It seems
to include the information we want and be fairly simple. We would likely adjust it some
to fit the issues we are addressing, but it is a good place to start.
